I am four weeks now into [App Academy](https://www.appacademy.io/), a coding bootcamp with locations in San Francsico and New York. I wake up, Bart into the city, and show up at 9 every morning, usually arriving to a lecture on the days project. After which we move onto the bulk of the day's work which is done in pair programming. Switching between partners every day this is done to encourage cross pollination of ideas, cooperation amongst peers, and relieing on each-other as the first line of support in learning the curriculum. The curriculum by the way, which has been up until this point entirely focused on Ruby and Ruby on Rails. This subject culiminated the last two days within the Ruby-Lite project where we were set to recreate the Ruby on Rails framework. See my solution here ([Ruby-On-a-Rail](https://github.com/TJTorola/Ruby-On-a-Rail)). These working days are intersperced with a weekly assessment. The assessments are provided with a set of specs that will be ran on them and at the end of the alloted time your final score is (specs passed / total specs) barring any blatent spec cheating. We have 6 assessments overall and upon failing two we are removed from the course. A bit rough seeing as how much we all sacraficed to get out here, but they provide us with practice exams the weekend before the test that are very similar if not slightly harder than the actual exam.

Coming from the last year and a half just trying to squeeze my learning into my day job and at the expense of my freetime (not that I have much freetime right now), it has been a wonderful shift to make my primary activity of the day progressing my skills. Especially being able to shift from PHP/Laravel to Ruby/Ruby On Rails. The switch has allowed to me to look at the full stack of web-development from a new angle and cement my understanding of it all that much better. And before anyone asks, they are both wonderful frameworks in my opinion.

We are set to move onto Javascript and then React after that. I'm probably more versed in JS than any other subject we will be covering over the course of AA, so I will use the extra time to attempt to finish one or more of the side projects that have been building up. I am particularly excited to finish building a task runner for my rails implimination and potentially a small website on top of it (I was thinking some sort of instagram clone).