I find it hard to look back at code that I wrote more than a couple of months ago. This is because, as a trend, I have been learning and improving my skills at a fairly rapid pace since I started learning to code, only about a year ago now. To look back through my "old" code tends to be a cringe worthy affair. Something that I'm sure most programmers (or any creative) can relate too. I'll take it as a good sign of progress, though as I begin to wrap up and prepare to ship a platform that I've been working on for the ~~vast majority~~ entirety of the time I've been coding, I've recently latched onto one particular lesson.

The project I speak of is a storefront content management system for a local small business. And to head off any questions as to why on earth I would decide to reinvent the already thoroughly invented wheel that is e-commerce solutions, let me say that I did it for the sake of learning. And learning I did. The lesson most recently learnt is that of the **Minimally Viable Product**. For the uninitiated that is the answer to the following question. What is the very least this platform can do still be considered the product it claims to be.

For me, at first glance, it made enough sense, though it wasn't immediately appealing. It looked to be mostly a tool to build up Venture Capital for projects by kickstarting a demo product to show off to potential investors. Though as I looked deeper I found that there is more to it than that. Building a development scheme around MVPs or Minimally Viable Features moreso seems to be to be an ideal way to develop. Or at least it seems ideal right now in stark contrast to the massive project that my storefront has become.

So in response to this lesson I decided to build a blogging platform. _The blogging platform this is hosted on currently_. Because I wanted to start blogging, and I dreaded the thought of using wordpress, I decided that this would be an ideal project for me. Trying my best to do a little as possible, I started on the platform. And here, in less than 100 lines of php, not counting Emanuil Rusev's _awesome_ [Parsedown Library](http://parsedown.org), I can present [MBP (Minimal Blogging Platform)](https://github.com/TJTorola/MBP). Due for a better name certainly.

The premise is simple enough. At the root of the webpage MBP grabs all the markdown files within the posts directory exposes a **posts()** function which `echo` an `<ul>` of posts for use inside a template file. When following a specific path MBP makes a **$post** object that is used similarly by a post template. The posts are stored a simple markdown files where the post title and date are pulled from the file name and modification time respectively. No authentication, no DB, just files.

All done in a single evening, it's been a great experience. I had to keep pushing out ideas of what I could add and what I thought I needed, but I found that this forced me to think deeply about what features are really necessary and valuable. It also forced me to figure out the simplest solutions to problems. Such as relying on Git as an authentication scheme and backend rather than a DB. And deciding to use markdown as the formatting system. Finally, I have what I believe to be a very productive blogging platform (at least for someone who knows git and markdown). Just write a post, push, and boom.

-Tyler@TJT.Codes
